---
layout: post
title: Bg Jobs
category: Training
tags: [Practices——Bg Jobs]
---


[Best Practices for Background Jobs](https://developer.android.com/training/best-background.html)


## 1 Background Operations
1. Perform tasks at bg
2. Case: a photo-ablum app optimizes its storage by compressing its photos beyond user interactivity.


#### 1.1 Scheduled Jobs
1. [Scheduled Jobs](https://developer.android.com/topic/performance/scheduling.html)
2. Specify many circumstances
3. For example, refresh cached data, specify job to run when sufficient power (no low battery)  and an unmetered network (no waste data allotment). Start the job at the appropriate time. 

#### 1.2 Services
1. Fg service is noticeable by the user.
2. Bg service is not noticed by the user but do something silently and for a brief duration.

#### 1.3 Broadcasts
1. It's dangerous that serveral apps respond to the same broadcast.(API26+ reason)
2. Register explicit or implicit broadcasts.

#### 1.4 Alarms
1. `AlarmManager` to start apps at a specific time.
2. Perform an operation at a specified interval, or under particular conditions to use a scheduled job.


## 2 Running in a Background Service
1. UI performance and responsiveness by sending work to a service.
2. UI Thread operations.
3. Off-load operations onto a separate thread that runs in the bg. [IntentService](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/IntentService.html)


### 2.1 Creating a Background Service 
1. Create an `IntentService`.
2. The `IntentService` provides a structure for (long-)running an operation on other bg thread.
3. `IntentService` isn't affected by most UI lifecycle events, so it continues to run in circumstances that would shut down an `AsyncTask`.
4. A few limitations: 
	* It can't interact directly with UI. Send the results to an `Activity`.
	* Work requests run sequentially (one by one).
	* Can't be interrupted.
5. Overide `onHandleIntent()`, and define `IntentService` in manifest file.

#### 2.2.1 Create an IntentService
1. Create an named `RSSPullService` class that extends `IntentService`.
2. Overide `onHandleIntent()` and handle data.

#### 2.2.2 Define the IntentService in the Manifest
1. `<service android:name=".RSSPullService" android:exported="false" />`
2. `<service>` doesn't contain an intent filter.  只能有唯一组件访问这个Service。


### 2.2 Sending Work Requests to the Background Service
1. Send work requests to an `IntentService`.


#### 2.2.1 Create and Send a Work Request to an IntentService
1. Create an explicit `Intent`

	```
	intent = new Intent(getActivity(), RSSPullService.class);
	intent.setData(Uri.parse(dataUrl));
	```
	
2 Call `getActivity.startService(intent)`;

### 2.3 Reporting Work Status 
1. Use an `Intent` and a `LocalBrocastManager` to communicate a work request status to the `Activity` that sent the request.
2. The status of a work request.


#### 2.3.1 Report Status From an IntentService
1. Create an `Intent` that contains the status in ites extended data(action or URI).
2. Send the `Intent` by calling `LocalBroadcastManager.sendBroadcast()`.

	```
	 public static final String BROADCAST_ACTION = "com.example.android.threadsample.BROADCAST";
    // Defines the key for the status "extra" in an Intent
    public static final String EXTENDED_DATA_STATUS = "com.example.android.threadsample.STATUS";
	Intent localIntent = new Intent(BROADCAST_ACTION);
	localIntent.putExtra(EXTENDED_DATA_STATUS, status);
	
	LocalBroadcastManager.getInstance(this).sendBroadcast(localIntent);
	```


#### 2.3.2 Receive Status Broadcasts from an IntentService
1. Create `DownloadStateReceiver` class that extends BroadcastReceiver.
2. Implement the `onReceive` method to handle intents.
3. Define the `BroadcastReceiver` and define filters for it match specific actions, categories and data.

	```
	//Activity or Fragment
	IntentFilter statusIntentFilter = new IntentFilter(BROADCAST_ACTION);
	statusIntentFilter.addDataScheme("http");
	```

4. Register `BroadcastReceiver` and `IntentFilter` with the system.

	```
	//Activity or Fragment
	DownloadStateReceiver receiver = new DownloadStateReceiver();
	LocalBroadcastManager.getInstance(this).registerReceiver(receiver, statusIntentFilter);
	
	```
	
5. A single `BroadcastReceiver` handles many types of broadcast `Intent` object with action.
6. Use a `Notification` to notify the user event happened in the bg while app was not visible.
	

## 3 Managing Device Awake State
1. Repeat alarms and wake locks to run bg.
2. Apps such as games or movie apps need keep the screen turned on.
3. Apps need not the screen on but require the CPU to keep running until a critical operations finishes.


### 3.1 Keeping the Device Awake
1. Keep the screen or CPU awake as needed, while minimizing the impact on battery life.
2. Avoid draining the battery, an Android device that is left idle quickly falls asleep.
3. Use the most lightweight approach possible to handle the cases.

#### 3.1.1 Keep the Screen On
1. `getWindow().addFlags(WindowManager.LayoutParams.FLAG_KEEP_SCREEN_ON);` in an activity(only an activity, never in a service or other app compontent). Switch the screen to turn off.
2. The advantage of the approach is that no require special permission, and the platform, no release unused res, unlike wake loacks.
3. Other way: `android:keepScreenOn="true"`
4. `ClearFlags();`


#### 3.1.2 Keep the CPU On
1. [PowerManager](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/PowerManager.html) system service feature called wake locks.
2. Creating and holding wake locks can have a dramatic impact on device's battery life.
3. A bg service grabs a wake lock to keep the CPU running to do work while the screen is off.
4. `<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.WAKE_LOCK" />`
5. [WakefullBroadcastReceiver](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v4/content/WakefulBroadcastReceiver.html) or other way :

	```
	PowerManager powerManager = (PowerManager) getSystemService(POWER_SERVICE);
	WakeLock wakeLock = powerManager.newWakeLock(PowerManager.PARTIAL_WAKE_LOCK, "MyWakelockTag");
	wakeLock.acquire();
	
	//release
	wakeLock.release();
	```

6. Using WakefulBroadcastReceiver
	1. Use the receiver in conjunction with a service that manages the life cycle of a bg task.
	2. A special type of `PARTIAL_WAKE_LOCK`
	3. Create `MyWakefullReceiver` that extends `WakefulBroadcastReceiver`, and `startWakefulService()`.
	4. `MyIntentService` extends `IntentService`, call `MyWakefulReceiver.completeWakefulIntent()` to release the wake lock.
	5. `<receiver android:name=".MyWakefulReceiver" />`


### 3.2 Scheduling Repeating Alarms
1. Repeat alarms to schedule operations(发生在app生命周期之外).


#### 3.2.1 Understand the Trade-offs


#### 3.2.2 Set a Repeating Alarm


#### 3.2.3 Cancel an Alarm

	```
	if (alarmMgr != null) {
		alarmMgr.cancel()
	}
	```

#### 3.2.4 Start an Alarm When the Device Boots
1. All alarms are canceled when a device shuts down.
2. `<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.RECEIVE_BOOT_COMPLETED" />`
3. Implement a `BroadcastReceiver` to receiver the broadcast
4. Add the receiver to manifest file with an intent filter that filters on the `ACTION_BOOT_COMPLETED` action.
5. 